# Assignment 6

1. Describe a PDA and a CFG for the language $A=\left\{b^ia^jb^ka^jb^l \mid j > 0,\, i,k,l\geq 0 \right\}$
2. Consider the language $A$ of all words in $\Sigma=\{a,b\}$ such that every prefix of $w$ has at least as many $a$'s as $b$'s. Construct a PDA for this language. As extra credit, also construct a CFG for it.
3. This problem concerns the language $C = A/B =\{w\mid wx\in A\textrm{ for some }x\in B\}$. In other words a string is in $C=A/B$ if it can be extended to a string in $A$, where the extension belongs to $B$. This part has an easy question for you, the next part will be more challenging. There is an obvious relation between the languages $CB$ (concatenation of $C$ and $B$) and $A$ (one is a subset of the other). Which relation is that?
4. In this problem we will sketch the proof of the following fact: If $A$ is a context-free language, and $B$ is regular, then $A/B$ is context-free. You may want to think about it on your own first, get a bit of a feel for the question before reading on.

    We will outline the proof. It is your assignment to provide the details. Assume $P$ is a PDA for $A$, and $D$ is a DFA for $B$. We will construct a PDA $O$ for $A/B$.

    - The states of $O$ are pairs of states from $P$ and $D$, i.e. $Q_O = Q_P\times Q_D$. So at any given point a state in $O$ keeps track of some state in $P$ and some state in $D$.
    - You will need to figure out the start state of $O$, though nothing fancy is needed here.
    - The stack alphabet for $O$ is the same as the one for $P$. Any moves we take from $P$, we will update our stack the same way they would.
    - You will need to formally define the transitions in $O$. The idea is as follows:
        - As long as we have not moved in the DFA yet, i.e. as long as the state we are in in $O$ is a pair that contains the start state of $D$, then our PDA has two types of choices:
            1. It can take a valid step from $P$, and not move in $D$. This corresponds to us still trying to recognize the "$w$" part of the $wx$ in the definition of $A/B$.
            2. It can take a valid step in $P$ that consumes some input, and take a move in $D$ corresponding to that same input. This commits the PDA to stop working on the $w$ part and start working on the $x$ part.
        - Once we have moved $D$, so we are no longer on its start state, our transitions become more limited. Essentially you only move if you can do it as an $\epsilon$-move in the PDA, or if it is a simultaneous move in both. At this point we are tracing the $x$ part in the $wx$ from the definition.
            1. We can make a valid step from $P$ that does NOT consume any input, and stay in the same state in $D$.
            2. We can make a valid step from $P$ that consumes an input, then move in $D$ using that same input.
    - If we make our accept states those pairs that correspond to both an accept state in $P$ and an accept state in $D$, this recognizes a different language. Describe that language.
    - Describe which states in $O$ we should call accept states, if we want to obtain $A/B$.
    - Sketch a proof of why/how this PDA achieves the desired objective of recognizing the language $A/B$.
5. If $A$ and $B$ are languages, we define a new language $C=A\diamond B =\{xy\mid x\in A,\, y\in B\, |x|=|y|\}$, i.e. the new language is formed out of the contatenation of a string from $A$ with a string from $B$, whenever those strings have the same length. Show that if $A$ and $B$ are regular languages, then $A\diamond B$ has to be context-free. (Hint: Construct the PDA for $A\diamond B$. Start with DFAs for $A$ and for $B$, use the union of their states, with some epsilon transitions thrown in, and maybe extra start/end states for stack cleanup. Use the stack to keep track of how many elements you've seen in $x$, then count them backwards in $y$.).


Extra credit problem: If $C=A/B$ as above, part 3 already asked you to show that one of $CB$ and $A$ is a subset of the other. As an extra credit problem, determine the status of the other direction: Are $A$ and $CB$ always equal? Either prove that they are always equal or provide a counterexample of languages $A$ and $B$ where if we define $C=A/B$ then $A$ and $CB$ are not equal.

Extra credit problem 2: What about $A\diamond B$ when $A$ is a CFL and $B$ is regular?
