# Assignment 9

1. Consider the language $\textrm{ALL}_\textrm{DFA}$ consisting of the string representations of all DFAs $D$ such that $L(D) = \Sigma^*$ is the language of all strings in the alphabet (the alphabet defined by that $D$). Show that this is a decidable language.
2. Consider the language $L = \left\{\langle M, N\rangle\mid M,N\textrm{ are TMs and }L(M) \cup L(N) = \emptyset \right\}$.
    a. Show that $L$ is not decidable.
    b. Show that $L$ is co-Turing-recognizable.
    b. Show that $L$ is not Turing-recognizable.
3. Consider the language $L = \left\{\langle M, w\rangle\mid M\textrm{ is TM and does not halt on }w\right\}$. Determine which of the following classifications is the correct one for $L$:
    - decidable
    - Turing-recognizable but not decidable
    - co-Turing-recognizable but not decidable
    - neither Turing-recognizable nor co-Turing-recognizable.
4. True or False (provide proof or counter-example as appropriate):
    a. If $A\subset B$ are two languages, then if $A$ is decidable then $B$ is also decidable.
    b. If $A\subset B$ are two languages, then if $B$ is decidable then $A$ is also decidable.
6. Suppose $A$ is a decidable language, and consider the language $L_A=\left\{\langle M, w\rangle\mid M\textrm{ is a TM and it accepts }w\textrm{ and what is left on the tape at that point is an element of }A\right\}$. For each of the following determine if it is true or false. Provide proof or counter-example as appropriate.
    a. For every decidable language $A$, we have $L_A$ is Turing-recognizable.
    b. For every decidable language $A$, we have $L_A$ is decidable.
    c. There is a decidable language $A$ for which $L_A$ is decidable.
